what is the future of infiltration you
can turn back now or learn the stuff
they don't want you to know welcome back
to the show that is Matt behind the
camera I'm Ben that makes this stuff
they don't want you to know now recently
Matt and I covered infiltration not just
infiltration by a governmental agency
like the FBI or maybe the NSA or even
the CIA in foreign countries but also
corporate infiltration which really does
happen this could be anything from
corporate espionage with one company
trying to sabotage rival to the strange
gray area of planting moles and
informants inside community groups
nonprofits political organizations but
all that aside which you can check out
in our previous two episodes it's time
to ask what is the future of
infiltration well if you're spying or
watching this I've got some good news
and bad news first off the future of
infiltration and spy craft is great it
is booming but probably for your bosses
maybe not so much for you why because
technology is growing increasingly
sophisticated and it's quite possible to
human informants or human intelligence
gatherers may one day be automated out
of their jobs just the same way that
many blue collar manufacturers found
themselves replaced by robots now we say
possible we don't say probable because
there are quite a few things that a
human being can do better than a robot
at this point for instance gaining the
trust of an organization or meeting
someone online and sounding like a real
person because as we know there's a huge
rush to actually pass the Turing test
and cleverbot god bless it is not making
the cut so how do we know that there
will be a tendency toward more
widespread infiltration in the future
well we already have a few examples and
we're extrapolating these over the next
new years we covered FBI infiltration
efforts in mosque around the United
States and one of the things that was
hugely controversial about this
infiltration program is that people were
saying the FBI players in the game
weren't just catching someone doing
something wrong they were goading them
into doing it and then arresting them
and in our episode about COINTELPRO we
have to imagine the time of which
COINTELPRO took place this
counterintelligence operations stuff
from the 50s to the 70s happened when we
were using what might as well have been
the technology of cave people because
now it is possible to monitor someone in
real time and now it is possible to dig
into an archive of someone's online
footprint you could even see the stupid
things they said on their life journals
this is not necessarily a bad thing at
least in theory if we look back on the
various atrocities in history being able
to have a terrorist group infiltrated
would be an enormous boon and save
millions of lives no one's arguing that
the second side that opponents are
arguing here is that this offer of
security or these these statements about
national security and safety are
disingenuous and they actually serve as
nothing more than a way to create a
police state now think about the brave
new world or think about 1984 we get
this sort of email all the time and Matt
and I have talked about whether it is
actually true so we want to throw the
question to you given that infiltration
is not always illegal in a lot of cases
and will probably be increasingly
prevalent in the future we want to ask
where you fall in this debate do you
think that infiltration of activist
groups is more for national security or
do you think it is part of a effort of
control be very careful with the term
police state because we have to ask why
people would want to control everything
to maintain a profitable status quo
that's what occurs a lot of fiction so
that's it thank you so much for watching
as always we hope that you will tell us
which side to this debate you're on in
the comments or you can find us on
Facebook and Twitter we're conspiracy
stuff on both of those you can send us
an email directly we are conspiracy at
discovery.com gas electricity water
what's going on in the world of public
utilities and is there something they
don't want you to know stay tuned to
find out next week